A federal appeals court has ruled that most of President Donald Trump's tariffs are illegal.

"We affirm the CIT’s holding that the Trafficking and Reciprocal Tariffs imposed by the Challenged Executive Orders exceed the authority delegated to the President by IEEPA’s text," the opinion from the Washington-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit states.

"We also affirm the CIT’s grant of declaratory relief that the orders are invalid as contrary to law."


In a 7-4 vote, the divided court allowed the tariffs to remain in place through Oct. 14 to give the Trump administration a chance to file an appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court.

TRUMP'S TARIFF POWER GRAB BARRELS TOWARD SUPREME COURT

President Donald Trump pointing inside the White House.
A court on Friday ruled that most of President Donald Trump's tariffs are not legal.   (Getty Images)

On Truth Social, Trump criticized the ruling, saying all tariffs were still in effect.

"Today a Highly Partisan Appeals Court incorrectly said that our Tariffs should be removed, but they know the United States of America will win in the end. If these Tariffs ever went away, it would be a total disaster for the Country," he wrote.

"It would make us financially weak, and we have to be strong. The U.S.A. will no longer tolerate enormous Trade Deficits and unfair Tariffs and Non Tariff Trade Barriers imposed by other Countries, friend or foe, that undermine our Manufacturers, Farmers, and everyone else. "

Trump has made tariffs a pillar of his second term as a way to compel other nations to renegotiate trade deals with the United States and to give the U.S. economic concessions.

"President Trump lawfully exercised the tariff powers granted to him by Congress to defend our national and economic security from foreign threats. The president’s tariffs remain in effect, and we look forward to ultimate victory on this matter." White House spokesman Kush Desai told Fox News.


TRUMP'S 'LIBERATION DAY' TARIFFS COULD HIT A SNAG IN COURT TODAY. HERE'S WHAT TO KNOW

Trump holds Foreign Trade Barriers document
President Donald Trump holds a "Foreign Trade Barriers" document as he delivers remarks on tariffs in the Rose Garden at the White House. (Reuters)

Revenue from tariffs totaled $142 billion by July, more than double what it was at the same point the year before. Congress has the power to impose taxes, including tariffs. But, in recent decades, lawmakers have ceded authority to the president, The Associated Press reported.

At issue was the legality of Trump’s attempt to use the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) — a 1977 emergency law — to enact the steep import fees and impose additional tariffs on certain trading partners.

The Trump administration argued that courts approved President Richard Nixon’s emergency use of tariffs in a 1971 economic crisis that arose from the chaos that followed his decision to end a policy linking the U.S. dollar to the price of gold, according to the AP.

Trump used the IEEPA law to enact the tariffs during his April 2 "Liberation Day" event.

In his post, Trump said allowing Friday's decision to stand would "literally destroy the United States of America."

Howard Lutnick knocks 'silly' critics of Trump's tariffsVideo
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP


"At the start of this Labor Day weekend, we should all remember that TARIFFS are the best tool to help our Workers, and support Companies that produce great MADE IN AMERICA products," he said.

"For many years, Tariffs were allowed to be used against us by our uncaring and unwise Politicians. Now, with the help of the United States Supreme Court, we will use them to the benefit of our Nation, and Make America Rich, Strong, and Powerful Again! Thank you for your attention to this matter."

